Remove HMAC and switch to Authorization (#2571)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-unprompted-auth.md

--- abstract

> Existing HTTP authentication schemes are probeable in the sense that it is

Reviewer: Is your abstract really just a repetition of the first paragraph of the introduction?

Maybe you can instead say what the document does (the last sentence, basically).

Author: Yeah that was somewhat lazy. I plan on fixing that once the draft gets a bit more stable

Author: Filed #2577 to keep track of this

!STRUCTURED-FIELDS=RFC8941}} to specify syntax and parsing: Integer and Byte
Sequence.

# The Signature Authentication Scheme

This document defines the "Signature" HTTP authentication scheme. It uses
asymmetric cryptography. User agents possess a key ID and a public/private key
pair, and origin servers maintain a mapping of authorized key IDs to their
associated public keys.

This authentication scheme is only defined for uses of HTTP with TLS
{{!TLS=RFC8446}}. This includes any use of HTTP over TLS as typically used for
HTTP/2 {{H2}}, or HTTP/3 {{H3}} where the transport protocol uses TLS as its
authentication and key exchange mechanism {{?QUIC-TLS=RFC9001}}.

Because the TLS keying material exporter is only secure for authentication when
it is uniquely bound to the TLS session {{!RFC7627}}, the Signature
authentication scheme requires either one of the following properties:

* The TLS version in use is greater or equal to 1.3 {{TLS}}.

> * The TLS version in use is greater or equal to 1.2 and the Extended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The TLS version in use is 1.2 and the Extended
```

Author: Agreed, done.

Master Secret extension {{RFC7627}} has been negotiated.

Clients MUST NOT use the Signature authentication scheme on connections that do
not meet one of the two properties above. If a server receives a request that
uses this authentication scheme on a connection that meets neither of the above
properties, the server MUST treat the request as malformed.

# Computing the Authentication Proof {#compute-proof}

The user agent leverages a TLS keying material exporter {{!KEY-EXPORT=RFC5705}}
with the label "EXPORTER-HTTP-Signature-Authentication" to generate a 32-byte

> symmetric key. That symmetric key is then used as nonce which can be signed

Reviewer: I might strike "used as [a] nonce" here.  The signature will be usable for multiple requests, so it isn't strictly a "number that is used once".

The key property this relies on is the contributory nature of TLS exporter output.  The client (or any other entity, for that matter) is unable to predict the value that the exporter might produce for a given connection.

Author: Agree with you, but we use the term nonce to refer to this in other parts of the draft. I'm happy to replace nonce with something else though - thoughts on something less wordy than "the data that is signed"?

Reviewer 2: The 'correct' term is channel binding, but some people inexplicably think that phrase is too scary.

Author: Filed #2578 to track this

using the client's chosen asymmetric private key. The resulting signature is
then transmitted to the server using the Authorization field.

# Authentication Parameters

> This specification defines the following authentication parameters:

Reviewer: You are using structured fields for the definitions of these, even though Authorization doesn't use SF.  That's good, but I might take this opportunity to make this point.

Author: I think I agree with the idea but I'm not sure I see what you mean. Do you have thoughts on how best to make said point?

Reviewer: "These parameters use SF [RFC8941 (or -bis)] in their definition, though the Authorization field does not use SF."

Author: Done

# Intermediary Considerations {#intermediary}

Since the Signature HTTP authentication scheme leverages TLS keying material
exporters, its output cannot be transparently forwarded by HTTP intermediaries.
HTTP intermediaries that support this specification have two options:

* The intermediary can validate the authentication received from the client,

> then inform the upstream HTTP server of the presence of valid authentication.

Reviewer: I just noticed below that both of these options depend on the intermediary being trusted to represent the status or value faithfully.  That makes the second option far less appealing, unless the intermediary doesn't want to perform the validation (but an intermediary is probably in a better position to cache the per-connection status so that extra work can be avoided, so...).

Author: Yeah, the number of dragons therein is what prompted me to punt this out of scope. To be fair since the intermediary has the TLS cert private key, this isn't the worst thing it can do.

Reviewer: Maybe open an issue and make that assumption explicit.

Author: Agreed, done via #2576

# Security Considerations {#security}

The Signature HTTP authentication scheme allows a user agent to authenticate to
an origin server while guaranteeing freshness and without the need for the
server to transmit a nonce to the user agent. This allows the server to accept
authenticated clients without revealing that it supports or expects
authentication for some resources. It also allows authentication without the
user agent leaking the presence of authentication to observers due to
clear-text TLS Client Hello extensions.

The authentication proofs described in this document are not bound to

> individual HTTP requests; if the key is used for authentication proofs on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
individual HTTP requests; if the key used for authentication proofs on
```

Author: I think we want the "is" here

> multiple requests they will all be identical. This allows for better

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple requests on the same connection they will all be identical. This allows for better
```

Author: Done

Author: Done

compression when sending over the wire, but implies that client implementations
that multiplex different security contexts over a single HTTP connection need
to ensure that those contexts cannot read each other's header fields.
Otherwise, one context would be able to replay the Authorization header field

> of another. This constraint is met by modern Web browsers. If an attacker were

Reviewer: Not clear what "this constraint" applies to at this point.  Maybe instead "Modern web browsers restrict visibility of the Authorization field, see [FETCH]."  (A citation here isn't cheap - you'd need to ask WHATWG to make the anchor stable.  They are good about that, but it's annoying to have to.)

Author: It's more about site isolation, JS for a given origin can't see the headers for another origin even if they're on the same connection. Thoughts on a best non-painful reference for that?

to compromise the browser such that it could access another context's memory,
the attacker might also be able to access the corresponding key, so binding

> authentication to requests would not provide much benefit in practice.

Reviewer: I'd drop this last sentence.  It's a good explanation, but almost too web-specific.

Author: Isn't the whole paragraph web-specific?

Key material used for the Signature HTTP authentication scheme MUST NOT be
reused in other protocols. Doing so can undermine the security guarantees of
the authentication.

> Origins offering this scheme are able to link requests that use the same key.

Reviewer: But these use the same connection anyway, so is this really a problem?  I guess if your goal is to break linkability, but only OHTTP does that (and this makes no real sense to do for the outer request).

Author: Not if you're using h1 though. I guess this is just a "sticking eye in fork hurts" sign, but it could be removed

user agent leaking the presence of authentication to observers due to
clear-text TLS Client Hello extensions.

The authentication proofs described in this document are not bound to
individual HTTP requests; if the key is used for authentication proofs on
multiple requests on the same connection, they will all be identical. This
allows for better compression when sending over the wire, but implies that
client implementations that multiplex different security contexts over a single
HTTP connection need to ensure that those contexts cannot read each other's
header fields. Otherwise, one context would be able to replay the Authorization
header field of another. This constraint is met by modern Web browsers. If an
attacker were to compromise the browser such that it could access another
context's memory, the attacker might also be able to access the corresponding
key, so binding authentication to requests would not provide much benefit in
practice.

Key material used for the Signature HTTP authentication scheme MUST NOT be
reused in other protocols. Doing so can undermine the security guarantees of
the authentication.

> Origins offering this scheme are able to link requests that use the same key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Origins offering this scheme can link requests that use the same key.
```
